--- Group B Final project – data part

Thank you everyone for joining us. Let’s review the data. 

Slide 1: -- Data description

This report uses Kaggle Dataset “120 Years of Olympic History: Athletes and Results”. 
This dataset provides 136K observations on 15 variables. In preparatory data processing, 
the following variables were selected for analysis: Sex, Age, Team, Year, Season, Medal 
and Country, and Continent?

After analyzed different aspects in the whole Olympic event data, only subset data from 2000 
were chosen for better understanding the sport trends and player status in different countries.

Data were extracted, processed, analyzed with R. The subset data includes 5 summer Olympic 
events from 2000 to 2016, and 4 Winter Olympic events from 2002 to 2014. We analyzed players 
under 19 year old, both male and female, from all countries, but we focus on medal winning 
players NOT from top 10 countries.


Slide 2: all player info
-- Methods/ Approach: A description of the techniques or algorithms to solve the problem.

Data preprocessing includes extracting interested data, such as aggregate, sort, join, and 
append data frames.Line charts and bar chart were produced for better understanding and easy 
comparison. there are 2 charts for comparison, one is player in summer Olympics, another one is 
player in winter Olympics.


The charts in this slide indicate the number of players under 19 years old from around the world is decreasing in summer Olympic.
the number in winter Olympics is up and down though.


Slide 3: top 10 vs non-top 10
The charts in this slide show the total number of players under 19 years old from medal winning countries in second
tier. non top 10 medal winning countries.


Slide 4: male vs female
And the bar charts in this slide show the number of male and female players under 19 years old from medal winning countries
 in non top 10 medal winning countries. 


It also indica
tes that there are a greater number of females under 19 participating 
than males in the same demographic. Athletes of this age group could be under resourced 
and good candidates for sponsorships. 

Slide 5: USA player male vs female

This slide shows the number of U.S. players under 19 are similar, female athletes far more than male athletes.  

